# Marco Piedra Venegas

Computer science student at University of Costa Rica.

Interested in computational mathematics.

Email: mpiedrav@proton.me

## 2024-11-24: Contribution

I'm not even sure what my lasting contribution to science and tecnology could
ever be.

My code is really basic and doesn't solve any difficult problems.

I can install Debian and configure servers, but who can't nowadays?

I tried majoring in pure mathematics, but failed spectacularly due to not
having focus or mathematical maturity. I even struggled with my math courses in
the computer science major.

Every day, I think my existence is pointless, useless, and an absolute waste of
resources. I don't have friends or a significant other.

I'm considered the worst student of my generation. My professors and classmates
look at me in intellectual disgust.

Professionally, I'm unreliable and prone to making serious mistakes that can
put projects at risk.

Life is becoming increasingly worse to me as time goes by. Why am I even alive?
I'm supposed to be dead by now.

## 2024-11-19: Experience

I'm 38 and now have sciatica. My age is showing. Especially among computer
science classmates at least 10 years younger than me.  I might look as misfit
as a person who never finished elementary school, and decides to enroll again
after several decades. An old person among quite younger ones.

Everything I've experienced professionally is totally useless by now. No wonder
why companies are eager to throw older employees away. Staff cutting is their
way to do garbage disposal. They can recruit far younger and fresher people for
even less salary.

Tell me again why I haven't killed myself. I tried in August-September 2005.
That's where the cuts on my arms come from. Next time I'll slit my throat open.
That should lead to enough bleeding to finally leave this earthly hell of
existence. Another hell awaits me afterwards, anyway. There's no escape
whatsoever.

## 2024-11-17: Optics

Visual metaphors turn out to be particularly useful for abstract phenomena.
Terms like "projection", "optics", "views", "myopic", and other involving sight
occur in discussion of societal issues and other contexts.

In particular, the mismatch in perception of the self, by the self versus by
other people, can be described in optical terms. In my case, my inner temporal
perception differs considerably from the ground truth of the physical world. At
least, when I hear myself speaking in a recording.

My stuttering, word repetition, lisping, and awkward pauses are considerably
visible (audible) by others. To my inner perception engine, they seem far less
noticeable. I notice that 1 second in my mind's clock, when I'm formulating
speech, might well be like 3 seconds in reality.

## 2024-11-17: Languages

R remains my favorite programming language for data science tasks, despite
Python's overwhelming popularity.

C is still my favorite language for high-performance computing, despite wide
criticism about the sheer difficulty of using it safely at scale. C++ is
particularly important, but I don't like it as much.

Bash shell scripts and traditional Unix tools still make a lot of sense to me,
despite many people considering them obsolete or hard to use.

Even though, I'm aware of the need of languages like JavaScript and TypeScript
in the modern web, and even mobile applications (e.g., React Native).

The web development ecosystem (especially frontend) moves extremely fast, both
breaking and fixing things along the way.  Still, I'm not particularly a fan of
writing web applications.

As for languages like C# and Java, they won't go away any time soon.
Corporations and governments will still use them for decades to come.  I don't
particularly like their ecosystems.

By far, I prefer anything computational involving statistics, probability,
numerical analysis, linear algebra, or geometry.

Math won't get obsolete any time soon in the next millennia.  Our means to do
math have been changing, but the underlying Abstract Nature, represented by
mathematical objects, doesn't.

In a sense, mathematics is the perfect programming language. Processes from
those programs have always been running out there, in Nature's computers.  We
try to compile, transpile, and reverse-engineer the programs behind those
processes to run them in computers of our own creation.

## 2024-11-10: Crystal-clear

It's my 4th year in my CS BSc degree, I'm 38, and I just can't reason correctly
and clearly.

In my CS research course, prof can't make heads or tails about my research
(ridehailing pricing simulation).

Now I'm convinced I'm not meant to do research in computer science.

A scientist is expected to be crystal-clear and precise about their ideas.

My generalized anxiety disorder, clinical depression, and Asperger's disorder
have been hindering me time and again.

I'm not even sure why I still live. I'm particularly useless and unstable for
life to make sense to me at all.

I keep moving by momentum or inertia. But I know I'll eventually kill myself by
stabbing.

I tried cutting my wrists in August-September 2005. That's where the scars
along my arms come from.
